To make GANs actually work really well,
it's important to choose a good overall architecture.
If we have a very simple task,
like generating 28 by 28 pixel images of handwritten digits from the MNIST dataset,
we can get away with a fully connected architecture.
In a fully connected architecture,
all of the interactions between layers consist of
matrix multiplication by weight matrices.
There's no convolution, there's no recurrence.
The most important design consideration for this architecture is to make
sure that both the generator and the discriminator have at least one hidden layer.
That ensures that both models have a universal approximator property and
can represent any probability distribution if given enough hidden units.
For the hidden units,
many activation functions will work,
but Leaky ReLUs are especially popular.
Leaky ReLUs help to make sure that the gradient can flow through the entire architecture.
That's an important consideration for any machine learning model.
But, it's even more important for GANs because the only way
that generator can learn is to receive a gradient from the discriminator.
A popular choice for the output of
the generator is the hyperbolic tangent activation function.
This means that your data should be scaled to
the interval ranging from negative one to positive one.
Finally, for most versions of GANs,
the output of the discriminator needs to be a probability.
To enforce that constraint,
we use a sigmoid unit as the output.
GANs are different from many other machine learning models because they
require running two optimization algorithms simultaneously.
We define a loss for the generator and a loss for the discriminator.
Then, we use one optimizer to minimize the loss for the discriminator,
while we simultaneously use another optimizer to minimize the loss for the generator.
Adam is a good choice for the optimizer.
This is one of the design choices from
the DCGAN architecture developed by Indigo and Facebook.
To setup the discriminator loss,
recall that we want to train the discriminator to
output values near one for real data and near-zero for fake data.
This is just like training irregular classifier in terms of the loss function we'll use.
A lot of the time, people make mistakes trying to implement their own loss function,
you want to remember that this is just a sigmoid cross entropy loss like you've
seen before and implemented the same way as in other classifiers.
One place where people often make a mistake is they forget to use
the numerically stable version of
cross-entropy where the loss is computed using the logits.
The logits are the values produced by the discriminator right before the sigmoid.
If you use the probability values that come out of the sigmoid,
there can be problems with rounding error when the sigmoid is near zero or one.
One GAN-specific trick is to multiply
the zero or one labels by a number that is just a little bit smaller than one,
so that you replace labels of one with labels of,
for example, 0.9 and keep the zero labels at zero.
This is GAN-specific version of
the label smoothing strategy used to regularize normal classifiers.
It helps the discriminator to generalize better and
avoid learning to make extreme predictions when extrapolating.
For the generator loss,
you want to set up another cross-entropy loss,
but with the labels flipped.
In other words, the generator will maximize the log probability of the wrong labels.
A lot of people like to use negative d-loss as the expression for g-loss.
It's very intuitive because it corresponds to
having the generator maximize the loss for the discriminator.
We even use that loss for a visualization earlier in this course,
but it doesn't work very well in practice
and we don't actually recommend that you implement it for
real because the gradient of d-loss is zero whenever the discriminator is winning.
Using negative d-loss as the loss for g,
forces that generator to maximize a cross-entropy.
We really want both players to minimize the cross-entropy.
Minimizing a cross-entropy works very well in practice because the derivative of
the cross-entropy function is always
non-zero whenever the cross entropy is not minimized.
So, the losing player always gets gradient.
That means it's much better for the generator to
minimize the cross-entropy with the labels
flipped rather than maximizing the discriminators' cross-entropy.
There are lots of other options for d-loss and g-loss.
New GAN papers are coming out constantly and many of them proposed new losses.
You'll take some time to see which ones end up working the best for the most people.
So far, everything we have discussed applies to almost every GAN.
Now, let's look at what we need to do to scale GANs up to large images.
To scale up classifiers to work on large images,
we use convolutional networks.
Convolutional networks replace some of
the matrix multiplies in normal neural networks with convolutions.
We can also replace the matrix multiplies in GANs with convolutions.
For the input to the GAN generator we usually use a random vector Z.
A mini-batch of these vectors forms a matrix.
The problem is, a convolution expects its mini-batch to be
a 4D Tensor with one axis for different examples in the mini-batch,
one axis for the different feature maps,
and then the width and height axes.
To get the random input into this format,
we have to use a reshape up near the start of that generator.
For example, we might transform a mini-batch of vectors that each contain
1,000 entries into a stack of 10 feature maps that are each sized 10 by 10.
Usually, convolutional nets changed
the shape of the feature maps as we move through the network.
The input to a convolutional net is
a very tall and wide image with just three feature maps: the red,
green, and blue color channels.
After applying convolution and pooling several times,
we end up with very short and narrow feature maps.
That's all what happens when we use a classifier convolutional net.
When we use a convolutional net as a generator net,
most researchers think we probably want to do the opposite.
We want to start off with a small feature map and expand it to a wide and tall image.
To do this, we need to have an op that can
increase the width and the height of feature maps at every layer.
The DCGAN Project introduced the idea of increasing the size of
the feature maps just by using convolution transpose ops with stride greater than one.
This just means that when we compute the convolution,
every time we move the convolution kernel by one pixel in the input map we move
it by two pixels or some other larger number of pixels in the output map.
Finally, you really want to use batch normalization or one of
the many follow-up methods based on batch normalization in most layers of the network.
The DCGAN authors recommend using batch normalization on
every layer except the output layer of
the generator and the input layer of the discriminator.
They also apply batch norm to all the real data in one mini-batch.
Then, apply batch normalization
separately to another mini-batch containing all the generated samples.
That's a little bit weird from a theoretical point of view because it means we use
a different discriminator function based on
different batch statistics for real data than we use for generated data.
Despite being a little bit weird,
it seems to work well in practice
You can read about a few different alternative normalization
strategies that are more theoretically straightforward
in an open AI paper called Improved Techniques for Training GANs.
Overall, this recipe of using convolution transpose,
batch normalization, Adam and
cross-entropy losses with label smoothing works fairly well in practice.